Hello and welcome back.
OK so not now the theory behind this query.
Let's put it into practice as you can see I'm working with Drey Eskew 9.6 through the P.G. admin for.
And you can see we have two databases that will be working with today only one of them will be working
with the consumer complaints.
So if we open up we need to make sure that it has some datings side of it.
And as you can see we do indeed have some data.
We have one table that consists of 18 different columns.
So the first example we're going to do is to try and display all of that data but that's hidden inside
of this database.
So in order to do that what we need to do is we need to select any element from this problem and you
right click it and just press Queretaro this will open up a new window that will let you directly work
with that database.
So the first thing is you know what we need to do is we need to write select and then since we want
to display all of the elements of this table we need to ride around all the column names and it will
take quite a while because there are 18 of them.
So I'm going to speed up for this moment so you don't get bored
ok.
So as you can see we have all 18 columns written down here.
It is a pretty big Querrey.
So now after we have this select statement written down what we need to identify is where we select
these columns from.
In our case it's the consumer complaints.
So let's just quickly put that down.
And now we just try to run this in order to run Asgill Querrey and PGE admin.
We need to present this lightning icon or alternatively you can just press F 5.
So as you can see the equerries now being executed and because my machine is pretty slow it will take
quite some time in order to complete this.
So again I'll speed you up for the process so you don't get the word.
So as you can see our query just finished running.
It took me a whole one minute to run it and we have all the data displayed here in the data output section.
So as you can see there are 18 columns here indeed and there's about 6000 rows.
If I'm not mistaken.
So that was pretty impressive wasn't it.
We now have actually a view of the whole table and thus consists of a lot of useful information.
But it did take us quite a while to write all of these column names now.
And we had to write them exactly the same way.
The reason here.
Otherwise the admin will pick up a mistake a missing column and we will have to check every column name
to in order to make sure we didn't make any mistakes.
So this can be quite unpleasant.
In order to avoid this as you know we can select star and select star means the same as select.
So instead of writing 18 column names all I need to do is write select star from consumer complaints
and when I run it it will give me the same exact data out that it did before.
So as you can see it's the same exact data output we have again all 18 columns here and we have about
6000 rows displayed again.
As you can see that's much easier to type and you are almost guaranteed to make no mistakes.
So I hope that was easy enough for you.
Now before we go any further let's try and run another Querrey.
But this time we only need to display the product name and the issue with the product so we don't need
to display every other element of the table.
We only need to display the product name and the issue.
This product had so added to do that we need to go back to our columns and we need to understand which
columns we will be working with.
In our case we'll be working with Product Name column and the issue.
So all we need to do is run and you select query.
Again in order to do that just right click press query too and here we go and type and select.
After that we specify what exactly we select the first element will be product name.
Then the issue after that we specify where we like it from which is again consumer complaints and as
you can see let's quickly run it it will run much much quicker and it in theory has to display as only
two columns that the name issue and it still will be around the 6000 roll Mark as you can see that show
us exactly that.
Here we can just stretch this column so we can read everything about them.
So let's just go and quickly take a look around and we can see that there was a problem of credit card
that the costs consumer had the problem of billing statement or for example the credit card had another
issue with the interest rate credit card had an issue with delinquent account and so on we will learn
how to filter this search even further later on in the course.
But for now before we finished today's lecture Let's go and run one last question.
This one will be just a bit more difficult to make sure we've learned everything today.
So for Squirtle it's fiercly go ahead and create the query and you query.
And now for the last query you were asked to display names of all companies that received complaints
from consumers as well as zip codes and states of these companies.
So as you can see you need to display company name then you need to display the state and the zip code.
And in order to do this all you need to do is we need to write the query where we specify that we select
company name which is just a company because that's how the column is named.
Then we need to specify that we select the zip code as well as the state name.
And then we have to specify that we select it from consumer complaints table.
And as you can see if we run it it has to give us back three columns of 6000 rows that will be company
name zip code and state name where these companies are located.
If you change the order in which the columns name go after de-select that will not be a huge deal.
It only just displays in which order.
The result is displayed.
So it's mostly about personal preference.
Or maybe if you have a specific task from your client to display it in side order you have to do that.
In our case we just display them as it's easiest to write down.
And as you can see yes we have the company names that are different companies that all had any issues
with consumers.
And then we have the zip code of these companies and the state names in which these companies operate.
So yep that's pretty much it.
It's very important that you understand the logic behind the select query because it's the foundation
on which the whole sequel is build.
And I hope this lecture help you to understand that and to feel comfortable around as well.
I hope you had a great experience today and learned a lot and I'll see you in the next one.